requested as the state of Palestine an
emergency meeting of the league of Arab
State at the level of foreign ministers
in Cairo in the next few
days
regrettably
history for some media and politicians
start when Israelis are
killed our people have endured one
deadly year after
another we came to the security Council
month after
month warning of the consequences of
Israeli impunity and international
inaction last
October about a year
ago we stated before the security
Council the Palestinian people will be
free
one day or
another one way or
another we chose the peaceful
way the one the International Community
advocates
for do not let Israel prove us
wrong for our sake and
theirs this is not a time to let Israel
double down on its terrible
choices this is a time to tell Israel it
needs to change
course that there is a path to peace
where neither Palestinians nor isra
Israelis are
killed and it is the one theatrically
opposed to the one Israel is embarked
on Israel keeps saying
the blockade and repeated assaults on
Gaza are to destroy
Hamas military capabilities and ensure
security clearly and ex and
expectedly its blockade and assaults
accomplished
neither the only thing they did
accomplish was inflicting terrible
suffering on an entire city civilian
population it is time for an immediate
end to the
violence and the Bloodshed and it is
time to end this blockade and to open a
political
Horizon when Israel now tries to justify
yet another
assault by the same faulty
premise no one should say or do anything
to encourage it down this
path we know only too well that the
messages
about Israel's right to defend itself
will be interpreted by Israel as
Licensed to
Kill to pursue on the very path that led
us here 370 and the number is Rising by
the moment of Palestinians that have
been killed already in one day including
children some barely a few months
old entire families were killed in their
sleep will this bring
Security will this Advance
pece where is the International
protection the Palestinian people is
entitled it l to when the occupying
power violates international law and
harms those it is obliged to
protect aren Palestinians lives worth
saving the Palestinian civilians killed
the Palestinian children killed in
occupied Palestine could have been
spared isn't that a moral and legal
obligation and a contribution into
peace why nothing is done when those
killed are
Palestinians we need to think hard of
what logic we want to see Prevail
here if this is about
vengeance then many Palestinians will
feel they have much to
avenge if this is about peace then the
way to it is not through further
entrenching oppression and occupation
but by ending
it you cannot say nothing
justifies killing Israelis and then
provide justification for killing
Palestinians we are not
subhumans let me repeat we are not
subhumans we will never accept a
rhetoric that then denigrates our
humanity and reneges our
rights a rhetoric that ignores the
occupation of our land and oppression of
our
people there is no right to security
that trumps the right of a Nation to
self-determination the Fulfillment of
our right to
self-determination is the only path
towards shared peace and
security we chose the peaceful path to
achieve our
rights but Israel continued using blunt
force against Palestinian lives and
Palestinian
rights Israel cannot wage a fullscale
war on a nation its people its land its
holy sites and expect peace in
exchange one needs to address the root
causes of the
conflict and by doing so we will be
addressing its
consequences we have been calling for a
different
rationale a different
approach
Justice not
Vengeance Freedom not occupation
peace not war our calls should be
heeded the alternative is playing out
under our very
eyes Israel has announced dozens of
times that it had handled the
Palestinian Problem by war against our
people or peace with others since
1948 a few days ago in the statement of
Netanyahu in front of the general
assembly nanahu held during that speech
in these United Nations a map denying
the existence of
Palestine a map of aggression and
annexation to all the
peacemakers to all those who believe in
the UN Charter and international law one
cannot lose sight of the bigger
picture we need to stand up for the
vision enshrined in the resolution of
the security Council and the general
assembly and to take the necessary
measures to ensure compliance with their
Provisions we need to uphold
international law not abandon
it everybody in the room behind me who
will be meeting in few
minutes agree on the end end
game Israel expects and demands
political and Military Support while
advancing goals that are fundamentally
at odds with International legitimacy
and
consensus its policies are an assault on
our
Humanity on international law on peace
and are a threat for its own
people can those supporting Israel
ignore its colonialist and racist
agenda that would be self-defeating
a different path is
possible I repeat a different path is
possible but it cannot ignore the lives
and rights of the Palestinian
people it must guarantee them equal
measures of freedom and
security you cannot stand for peace if
you do not stand up to
occupation do it because it is the right
thing to
do
morally
legally
politically and because it will save
lives peace will save lives
because it is the only way forward I
thank you very much we have copies for
those who are interested to give it to
you thank
you that was the Palestinian ambassador
to the United Nations speaking ahead of
a security
Council emergency meeting let's bring in
sheab branzi who's covering developments
for us at the UN sheab Riad Mansour had
a calm but strong message calling for an
end to the blockade what more did he say
and of course his comments come ahead of
that emergency
meeting and one hour after the the
Israeli ambassador to the UN spoke at
the same spot but this is a very
different message this was a statement
rooted in the historical context in the
context of international law and the
context of un Security Council
resolutions UN General Assembly
resolutions and what he said were
repeated warnings at the UN Security
Council that Palestinians in his words
would would be will be free one way or
another Mansour there though still
saying there is a way to peace that the
the Palestinian people will be free one
way or another but there is still the
time for Israel to change course there
is a path open to peace but he also that
asked the International Community of
which clearly the UN Security Council is
representative where is the protection
of the Palestinian people are entitled
to when an occupying power is abusing
them we are not subhumans he said and
then he repeated that but he said look
this is not the time for vengeance this
is the time to uphold international law
not abandon it now an hour ago we heard
from the Israeli Ambassador who said
that this current operation was Israel's
911 and from now on nothing will be as
it was then he said and this is quite
quite interesting in the context of
wondering what Israel may do next every
inch of Gaza has become part of the
Hamas War Machine Israel will exact a
heavy price on Hamas so clearly when
we're talking about vengeance and when
we're talking about international law
international humanitarian law the
Geneva conventions these are rather
concerning concerning statements when it
comes to proportionality but both both
the Israeli and the Palestinian
representatives of the UN speaking ahead
of that un security council meeting
which is supposed to begin in about 10
minutes 10 minutes time she had just on
that security council meeting what if
anything are we expecting to come out of
that in terms of a
deescalation we can only sort of try and
do the sort of kremlinology the UN
context of that which is okay well what
exactly is happening in 10 minutes
initially this was supposed to be a
private meeting meeting of the UN
Security Council so that is actually a
formal meeting of the UN Security
Council behind closed doors but which
the Israeli and Palestinian
Representatives could could participate
in that was then changed apparently at
the request of some members of the UN
Security Council to closed consultations
so that's not a formal meeting of the UN
Security Council and only members of the
UN Security Council can attend and we
expect them to be briefed by the current
special coordinator for the UN for the
Middle East peace break process toward
wesland so I guess what we think is
going to happen here is this really is a
briefing this isn't going to be the
grand standing that we might see in a
public meeting and this isn't going to
involve the Israeli and Palestinian
Representatives even but this is going
to be I I this is what we we we we're
gleaning this is what's going to be the
un's perspective on what's Happening and
the realities on the ground right now
from which then I think we can expect
the UN Security Council to act we've
been checking we haven't seen any formal
statements or any dve statements being
circulated amongst members for
consideration so we do seem to be at a
very early stage of the UN security
council's deliberative process okay
thanks so much and we'll cross back to
you throughout the evening with an
update sheab ranzi at the United Nations
Let's cross to rala now where Imran Khan
is standing by for us with some
developing news Imran tensions are high
tonight what's the latest on the ground
in
rala well as you heard rman saw there
talking he said as I'm speaking to you
uh Palestinians are dying as he was
speaking two Palestinians were actually
killed in kandia checkpoints uh the
Israelis use live fire at kandia kandia
is the main Crossing between ramala into
uh Jerusalem uh there were some minor
protests going on the Israelis actually
used live fire and two people were uh
actually killed in the last 20 minutes I
heard ambulances raced down to Candia
it's really not that far away from where
I'm standing right right now that comes
about an hour earlier in Jericho another
Palestinian was killed uh he was killed
uh by live fire his body's already
actually been buried and there's been a
fourth in Hebron these all been
happening as the UN Security Council is
about to meet as the Israeli uh
representative to the United Nations was
talking and as riedman saw was actually
speaking himself this is a very serious
uh development within the occupied West
Bank the occupied West Bank I'll just
recap very quickly has been out on
strike uh in support of Hamas people
have been protesting here in rala across
the occupied West Bank but the Israelis
have been using life fire on some of
those protesters so clearly uh the
Israelis are trying to keep a lid on
events in the in the West Bank but what
they're doing effectively by killing
these people is inflaming tensions
further also within the occupied West
Bank they've actually stopped
Palestinians moving from one place to
another you can't can't get from
Bethlehem for example to rala uh you
can't get from Janine you can't get
outside of Hebron the Israelis have got
a very heavy security uh presence here
but it's this use of live fire against
unarmed protesters that's now incredibly
concerning within the occupied West Bank
and you've been painting a picture of
romala this evening what's it like there
in terms of public um public people
being on the streets for example or
people in their homes what are you
hearing anecdotally
well I'm just hearing the same thing in
different ways but the literally the
same thing from most people I've spoken
to and it says that yes we are surprised
by what happened but we're not surprised
if you treat people like animals then
you should not be surprised that they
fight back and that is the real sense of
what's going on here people are
surprised by what's happened but they
are sympathetic towards Hamas and what
they're doing okay thank you so much for
that update that that's Imran Khan in
rala I want to bring in alzer's senior
political analyst now Maran basawa who
joins us live from Paris plenty of
moving parts to this story tonight uh
plenty of breaking news we've heard
Israel's knesset has just declared the
nation is officially at War we've also
heard from the ambassador to the United
Nations from the Palestinian Ambassador
perspective and also from the Israeli
perspective I'm not sure if you're able
to listen to both both of those press
conferences but certainly a a a STK
contrast in the messages coming from
both of them
Maan oh yeah absolutely because uh uh
you know this war has many fronts right
and one of those fronts is the
Diplomatic front and what you will see
in the United Nations in the days and
weeks to come is probably more of the
same that we've seen in the many years
uh before uh which is uh you know a a
very conflicting uh uh messaging on on
both parts uh while the Palestinians
continue uh to underline the importance
of the uh root causes of this issue the
historic uh injustices that the
Palestinians fa face Israelis continue
to talk about security and to talk about
themselves as victims of Israeli Terror
uh about Palestinian Terror as it were
uh but all in all uh what we have is
diplomats trying to score points at this
point right I mean while yes they try to
make points as well because they are
also speaking to an international
audience trying to defend their causes
but in this stage in time they are
certainly trying uh to score
points and just briefly before we let
you go Maran where too from here we're
seeing gaza's night sky being lit up
with air strikes are we likely to see a
heavy civilian death toll going forward
on both sides
absolutely I think Israel is bound to
overreact there's going to be a
disproportionate use of force and
clearly the way it's bombarding from far
it means there are going to be a huge
civilian casualties among
palesa no less uh because this is the
so-called casualties of war is on the
mind of prime minister Netanyahu who
certainly wants the Palestinian to pay
the price for what happened over the
weekend okay we have to leave it there
thank you so much for your time that's
our political analyst Maran bashara in
Paris